---
title: "Test"
date: 2023-02-01
---

Before beginning my study of C#, I decided to familarize myself with Visual Studio (Community Edition). https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/

While I had used the IDE before, I never made much of an attempt to learn it's in-and-outs. Frankly, I always thought it was unnecessarily confusing piece of bloatware and avoiding it as much as possible. I am still a little undecided, I admit that it provides a number of tools that may end up being great. I did run into some frustrations in using it's git interface, but that was more my issue than anything with the software. Also, the MSDS documentation and training materials, including videos, (docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp) is excellent and I will no doubt take advantage of it throughout my C# learning journey.

This week I learned about basic C# conventions, data types, conditional statements, and the language's handling of arrays, classes, and inheritance. Thus far, it has been a fairly straightforward translation from languages I already know, particularly C++. 

I decided to keep tradition and make my first program a "hello world." 

'''
using System;

namespace HelloWorld
{
    class hello_world
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!");
            Console.ReadLine();
        }
    }
}
'''

At first glance, it appears very similar to C++. Variables are typesafe, and declared in much the same way.


Here is another beginner's classic, a "compute the radius" program:

'''
using System;
namespace circle_area
{
    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Enter radius =");
            double radius = double.Parse(Console.ReadLine());

            double area = Math.PI * radius * radius;

            Console.WriteLine("The area = : " + area);
            Console.ReadLine();
        }
    }
}
'''

My first reaction to C# is that it is very similar to C++.  Iam still a little confused about how the .NET platform works, but that will be a topic for this coming week's study.
